---
layout: post
title:  "Eyeball Test: Suns @ Thunder"
date:   2015-11-11 19:33:00
categories: [was,notes]
author: Jonathan
excerpt: "The Thunder build on their good habits and blow out the Wizards to fend off the national media drooling over a Durant homecoming..."
---

### OKC 125 - WAS 101

The Thunder build on their good habits and blow out the Wizards to fend off the national media drooling over a Durant homecoming.

- Great start again. This looks like a thing now. No matter the end result, the Thunder have consistently started very strong.

- The got a little too comfortable and the risky passes/turnovers came back out. They got back on track pretty quickly though.

- Ibaka hit a mice running floater off the dribble. It looks very much under control, a vast improvement over the robotic-like attempts we've seen in past seasons.

- Roberson knocking down threes. The whole team shot ridiculously efficient from deep against Washington, but Roberson looks more confident in his shot in general.

- Westbrook didn't score until there were 5 minutes left in the first quarter. Instead he was lasering in passes from the top of the key to Durant standing by himself under the basket.

- Durant is typically terrible in DC. His visit home with family and friends seems to distract him, although that's completely speculation. This visit, however, with all the media attention and the Thunder (and Durant) working back into form he was locked in.

- McGary in the early bench rotation again. Great energy to start and had some good chemistry alongside D.J. Augustin.

- Singler looked like he was having a more successful game, but it doesn't change one thing: When he touches the ball, no matter where it is on the floor, it seems to bring the same results as Kevin Martin catching the ball in the corner several seasons ago. They both were likely to end in a turnover.

- The bench, when Waiters isn't being dominant, seems to lack a confidence it's had since James Harden was drafted. The Thunder have always had an explosive ball handler coming off the bench that had the ability to drive, dish, and hit big shots. Harden is now in Houston of course, and Reggie Jackson is tearing it up in Detroit next to Andre Drummond. As the game progressed and Waiters was hitting his stride, the bench started to click. He's making positive progress each game, and while his shooting percentages may not be sustainable, having 'Contract Dion' keep it up will be huge for the Thunder. Also, #contractdion looks weirdly similar to 'contradiction'. Coincidences?

- Adams was unlucky with the whistles, sitting early due to foul trouble twice during the game. It flipped the center rotation, putting Kanter with the starters and Adams with the bench. And he ate the Washington backup bigs. He was rebounding, or causing havoc underneath, it seemed like every play. Rebounding advantage with Adams and Kanter is a very good thing, and hopefully KD can come back and maintain his progress back to rebounding like he used to. He had 10 in the first half against Washington.

- I was worried about Ibaka's defensive quickness last game. It's still lingering, but when he's on he looks just as good as he used to. Here's hoping it's just a spotty start to the season that will pick up to where his offense has been so far.

- I've alluded to it a few times, but Durant's hamstring strain puts him out at least a week. Luckily there's a two day break and a light schedule coming up, but an injured Durant is never good. He played after the obvious funny landing that hobbled him up, and he said it just felt sore after the game. Hopefully it doesn't slow down his rounding into form very much. He was making huge strides up to this point.

- When Westbrook is one assist away from a triple double he has a one-track mind. He's going to hit his teammates with passes until one of them makes a shot. It was getting later in the third quarter, and he knew he wouldn't be playing in the fourth with the 20+ point blowout going strong. It took three empty trips down the court until someone could hit a shot. Westbrook then resumed scoring at will.

- It would have been really nice to see the Thunder against a healthy Wizards team, but 97 points in three quarters means something is going right.

- I get sad when Morrow misses 3-pointers. He also struggled defensively, but so did everyone in the fourth quarter. Because blowout.

- With such a huge lead I'm surprised there was no Cameron Payne sighting until 3:22 left in the game. He scored his first career points with a nifty driving scoop shot. He's active on defense, but he's not the strongest right now and has some definite work to do.

#Eyeball Test?

**Good.** Don't have much to say here. They blew out an injury riddled team that's been the center of a building media frenzy trying to steal away the Thunder's face. Westbrook did his thing, and Dion grew bigger in his sixth man role. Hopefully the Thunder can hold off teams this next week and Durant comes back healthy and ready to go.